All the cells in your body need oxygen.
Oxygen moves around your body
in red blood cells.
If you have anemia,
you don’t have enough healthy red blood cells
to give them the oxygen they need.
Red blood cells are made in soft,
spongy tissue called bone marrow
in the center of bones.
They carry oxygen from your lungs
to cells throughout your body.
The red blood cells contain proteins
called hemoglobin,
which give red blood cells their color.
Hemoglobin is made up of sequences of
amino acids with an iron atom,
which can bind to a molecule of oxygen.
The hemoglobin releases the oxygen
to cells as the blood passes through
your body’s tissues.
There are different types of anemia
and different causes.
Your body may not make enough red blood cells,
or you may lose them through bleeding,
or your body may destroy them.
In a common type called iron-deficiency anemia,
your body does not have enough
iron to make hemoglobin.
Without it, the red blood cells
cannot carry oxygen.
This can result in a variety of symptoms
such as fatigue and lack of energy.